---
layout: post
title:  "1st Technical Log"
date:   2022-10-23 12:18:25 -0000
category: Log
---
## Individual Challenge

# Double or One Thing

`Overview`

Double or One Thing is a challenge that deals with String manipulation, where depending on the word that you get, you need to output the one that appears first in alphabetical order. In this case, I decided to give it an approach in Kotlin language, as I challenged myself to continue working with Kotlin on the individual problem to continue practicing it.

In summary, the program receives a set of Strings wich you need to manipulate in order to print the one needed.

For example, these strings are in alphabetical order: 

1. CODE
2. HELLO
3. HI
4. HIM
5. HOME
6. JAM

`Context`

[Double or One Thing][cj-dor1] challenge:

You are given a string of uppercase English letters. You can highlight any number of the letters (possibly all or none of them). The highlighted letters do not need to be consecutive. Then, a new string is produced by processing the letters from left to right: non-highlighted letters are appended once to the new string, while highlighted letters are appended twice. Similarly, if you highlight nothing, you obtain HELLOWORLD, and if you highlight all of the letters, you obtain HHEELLLLOOWWOORRLLDD. Notice how each occurrence of the same letter can be highlighted independently.

Given a string, there are multiple strings that can be obtained as a result of this process, depending on the highlighting choices. Among all of those strings, output the one that appears first in alphabetical (also known as lexicographical) order.

For more info, feel free to follow the hyperlink on `Double or One Thing`.

`Solution`

The first challenge was to understand how CodeJam was giving the inputs, as they test your answer with 100 cases, in this problem, they start giving you the 100 cases so you then test them and output in the order that they gave.

For this, I worked on the `main` function of the program where I first read the total number of cases, depending on that, I created a mutable List to fill with all the cases with a for loop. On the last part, I need to print the cases in order, so I made another for loop to iterate through all the cases and called a function named `doubleOrOne` to work on the answer for the case in moment.

_Main function:_

{% highlight kotlin %}
fun main(args: Array<String>) {
    //input cases
    val cases = readln().toInt();
    //inputing an Array of all the cases
    val casesArray: MutableList<String> = mutableListOf();
    for (i in 0 until cases) {
        val temp = readLine().toString();
        casesArray.add(temp);
    }
    //Print cases
    var case: Int;
    for (i in 0 until cases) {
        case = i + 1;
        print("Case #$case: ");
        //Calling method with the array of cases
        doubleOrOne(casesArray[i]); 
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

After, I needed to think in a way of solving the actual problem. Alphabetical order works in a way that if a letter is lower, you can repeat them. for this case I took 'A' as 1 and 'Z' as 26, just for a headsup, this is not the actual nomber on the ASCII table, but if you compare them you can think of them as the numbers I mentioned.

I will use this word on all examples because it is on case #1: The word is PEEL and these are all the strings that can be obtained, in alphabetical order: PEEEEL, PEEEELL, PEEEL, PEEELL, PEEL, PEELL, PPEEEEL, PPEEEELL, PPEEEL, PPEEELL, PPEEL, and PPEELL.

My first approach was to just compare the letter in i with the letter en i+1, and if it was lower to double it, this works but not completely, because you can have two equal letters together and it will not double because all those letters that are the same need to compare to the next bigger one in case there is one. In a case of just the same letter, it stays the same as "a" is lower than "aa". You don't double the last letter if its repeated, you just put it the amount of times it is as in "jekyll", you only put "ll" at the end and not repeat it.

How can I make it so it detects two letters? I came up with the idea of making 2 mutable lists one for the letter in position and other for the number of times each letter appears to double it later if needed. To add the number of times I made a counter that stored how many times the letter repeats, if its the same you sum 1 to it and if it's different you reset it to 1. 

With this it worked, but I was encountering the problem of: "Out of bounds" as I checked i with i+1. To solve this I just put a character that is bigger on the ASCII list at the end of the word, it is bigger because we don't want the last letter to double, as it makes it bigger on alphabetical order. That is why there is another variable named firstWord = word.plus("·"). Then I just iterated through the word to add to the lists the letter and number of times it appears, in order.

For you to understand better:

1. (List) letter = [P, E, L]
2. (List) count = [1, 2, 1]

With this, I can create now the newWord that is gonna be first in order, so I created it and iterated in a for loop the size of my lists with letter and count, here I tested if it was lower and if it was, I multiplied the count by 2 so the letter needed repeats the amount of times in order for it to be first, if it was not lower, I just added the letter by the count. 

Because I was testing with i+1 again the last letter was not going to appear, but as I explained earlier, this letter was only needed to test if the one before is lower, so you just add it at the end by the times it appears on count.

With the answer in our newWord, we just print it and enjoy!

_doubleOrOne function:_

{% highlight kotlin %}
fun doubleOrOne(word: String) {
    //Making 2 arrays, one for the letter and one for the number of times each letter appears to double it later
    val letter: MutableList<String> = mutableListOf();
    val count: MutableList<Int> = mutableListOf();
    //Counter to know how much times a letter is in the string (next to)
    var counter = 1;
    //Making a new variable for the String received as val cant be changed and var can. 
    //Adding a char that is bigger than all the letters so it can iterate tru all the String as I need to check for i+1
    var firstWord: String = word.plus("·");
    for (i in 0 until firstWord.length - 1) {
        if (firstWord[i] == firstWord[i+1]) {
            counter++;    //counter++ if 2 letters are the same next to each other
        }
        else {
            letter.add(firstWord[i].toString()); //adding the letter
            count.add(counter);                  //adding the counter
            counter = 1;                         //reset counter
        }
    }
    
    //new word that is gonna be created with all the double chars
    var newWord: String = "";
    //iterate tru all the letter variables saved
    for (i in 0 until letter.size - 1) {
        if (letter[i] < letter [i + 1]) {   //if the letter is lower repeat it by the times on count * 2
            repeat(count[i] * 2) { 
                newWord = newWord.plus(letter[i]);
            }
        } else {                            //else just add the count, w/o * 2
            repeat(count[i]) {
                newWord = newWord.plus(letter[i]);
            }
        }
    }
    //as the for is on size - 1 add last letter by the number of times on count
    newWord = newWord.plus(letter[letter.size - 1].repeat(count[count.size - 1]));
    //print final word
    print("$newWord\n");
}
{% endhighlight %}

Full code of the solution: [Full Code][full-code]

`Extras`

There is a chance of optimization by just comparing the word and saving on a new String and not making the Lists, just by comparing them and use the counter without the need of filling and then comparing the filled Lists. 

Also there can be different solutions by the logic used to solve the problem, I do think that the comparison part with one letter with the next one has to be if not equal really alike on all perspectives.

The fun part of coding is that everyone can have a different approach and is always cool to check on teammaters or other people on the web how they code the solution, it also expands the knowledge as you have to understand how every code works. 

[cj-dor1]: https://codingcompetitions.withgoogle.com/codejam/round/0000000000877ba5/0000000000aa8e9c
[full-code]: https://theclerici.github.io/my-blog/blog-code/code/2022/10/14/doubleoronething.html