---
layout: post
title:  "2nd Technical Log"
date:   2022-10-23 16:18:25 -0000
category: Log
---
## Group Challenge

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<blockquote> <p> General Overview: </p> </blockquote> 

The Code Jam competition is _"Google's longest running coding competition, where programmers of all levels put their skills to the test. Competitors work their way through a series of online algorithmic puzzles to earn a spot at the World Finals, all for a chance to win the championship title and $15,000 USD."_ 

The assignment given was to solve the `Qualification Round` and the `Round 1A` in 4 different programming languages: `Kotlin, Python, Dart and TypeScript`. In these rounds there were a total of 8 challenges, so we needed to implement 32 coding solutions.

To complete this challenges we reunited in daily meetings during the 2 weeks, organizing and brainstorming all of our different approaches, we all contributed to this and I'm really happy with the outcome of the assignment. More details of every challenge I helped with on `solutions --> context` so you understand each one and how it works, in the next seccion of overview I just named them, and they all come with a hyperlink in case you need an in-depth context of it.

## Qualification Round

# 1. [Punched Cards][punched-cards]

# 2. [3D Printing][3d-printing]

# 3. [d1000000][d-1000000]

# 4. [Chain Reactions][chain-reactions]

# 5. [Twisty Little Passages][twisty-little]

## Round 1A

# 1. [Double or One Thing][d-or1]

# 2. [Equal Sum][equal-sum]

# 3. [Weightlifting][weight-lifting]

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<blockquote> <p> Solutions: </p> </blockquote> 

Before even starting to code, we decided that as a team we need to understand all the challenges, the first day was actually understanding them, everyone on their own, or at least try to understand the majority of them, the next day, on a teams call, we went 1 by 1 through all the challenges and explained them together, when there was no more questions the fun began, splitting (or co-programming) all the problems that we can, in order to reach the goal of finishing them all.

We started with the first 3 problems, and all the answer needed to be done by monday of the next week days. We reunited again with the news of 3 more new challenges, but we were on the same page, now we need 5 challenges again for the week and no more time to spare.

For the last 5 challenges, we made kind of the same thing, as some challenges were already written on the Individual part (as my case) we were a little bit ahead, so no time to waste, we divided again and in the following section of the technical log you will see how I aproached every challenge and how I helped to complete this CodeJam 2022 task!

# Punched Cards

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<blockquote> <p> Overview: </p> </blockquote> 

Punched cards is a challenge that deals with array manipulation, user input, output and printing format. Given the integers R = Rows and C = Columns describing the size of a punched card, you need to print the ASCII art drawing of it as described.

Here is an example with R = 3 and C = 4:

# . . + - + - + - + 
# . . | . | . | . | 
# + - + - + - + - + 
# | . | . | . | . | 
# + - + - + - + - + 
# | . | . | . | . | 
# + - + - + - + - +

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<blockquote> <p> Context: </p> </blockquote> 

A secret team of programmers is plotting to disrupt the programming language landscape and bring punched cards back by introducing a new language called Punched Card Python that lets people code in Python using punched cards! Like good disrupters, they are going to launch a viral campaign to promote their new language before even having the design for a prototype. For the campaign, they want to draw punched cards of different sizes in ASCII art. 

The ASCII art of a punched card they want to draw is similar to an R×C matrix without the top-left cell. That means, it has `[(R⋅C) − 1]` cells in total. Each cell is drawn in ASCII art as a period `(.)` surrounded by dashes `(-)` above and below, pipes `(|)` to the left and right, and plus signs `(+)` for each corner. Adjacent cells share the common characters in the border. Periods `(.)` are used to align the cells in the top row.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<blockquote> <p> Solution: </p> </blockquote> 

As every solution in Code jam, there is a certain way to read the inputs given, for this case you get an input for the number of cases to test. Then you have to print the cases in order, to do this easily, we created a list to fill all the solution of the cases with a for loop and iterate through all the cases to get the answer. This is made on the `Main` function.

On another note, I implemented the solution from `python` to `kotlin`, after the meetings we had to distribute the challenges in all the programming languages. In order to achieve this, I needed to learn the basics of Kotlin. A really cool site that I like for this is [Learn X in Y minutes][learn-kotlin] so I can achieve the knowledge in Kotlin to translate the problem. Some of them are: Input, Output, Variable definition, Loops, Strings, etc.

_Main function:_

{% highlight kotlin %}
fun main(args: Array<String>) {
    //input cases
    val cases = readln().toInt();
    //Array of cases
    val casesArray: MutableList<MutableList<Int>> = mutableListOf();
    for (i in 0 until cases) { //O(n)
        val (x, y) = readLine()!!.split(' ').map(String::toInt);
        val temp: MutableList<Int> = mutableListOf(x, y);
        casesArray.add(temp);
    }
    //Print cases
    var case: Int = 0;
    for (i in 0 until cases) {   
        case = i + 1;
        println("Case #$case:");
        printPunchCard(casesArray[i][0], casesArray[i][1])
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

The first approach that I wanted to give to this challenge was to just make a nested loop to iterate through rooms and columns, but this is not the way to go, as the challenges have some time limits that it needs to follow and this was not a fast solution to it, so what was decided to do is work with separated loops to fully implement the punched card.

It worked by parts, first printing the top left print because it needed to be in a certain way, with dots. Then, we filled Strings depending on the length of the columns, one for each, the `+-+` and the `|.|`.  With this being completed, we just need to iterate through until row size because we already made the top print with the dots. and because it finishes with the plus String we asked with an if so we don't print and extra line with bars. This was all made on the `printPunchCard` function.

_printPunchCard:_

{% highlight kotlin %}
fun printPunchCard(row: Int, col: Int) {
    //Top left print
    print("..");
    for (i in 1 until col) { 
        print("+-");
    }
    print("+\n");
    print("..");
    for (i in 1 until col) { 
        print("|.");
    }
    print("|\n");
    // End of top left print

    //Constructing the string to print multiple times
    var pluss: String = "";
    var bars: String = "";

    //Plus sign string
    for (i in 0 until col) { 
        pluss = pluss.plus("+-");
    }
    pluss = pluss.plus("+");

    //Bar sign string
    for (i in 0 until col ) { 
        bars = bars.plus("|.");
    }
    bars = bars.plus("|");

    //Printing rest of the punch card
    for (i in 0 until row) { 
        print("$pluss" + "\n");
        if (i == row - 1) {
            continue;
        } else {
            print("$bars" + "\n");
        }
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

Full code of the solution: [Full Code][full-code1]

# Twisty Little Passages

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<blockquote> <p> Overview: </p> </blockquote> 

Twisty Little Passages is a challenge that deals with probability and importance sampling. You are given the total rooms and the number of operations that you can do for every case. You need to implement a way of asking the user every move you want to do by teleporting and walking a total of K times, getting all the degrees possible and also a good estimation of a degree average, this in case there is still rooms left to visit by our K operations. 

In our solution we implemented the following graph formula for edges (passages in problem): 

`Edges (Passages) = ΣDegrees/2 `

For this type of problems there is no pure scientific correct way of solving, here you need to implement enough heuristics so that you are fairly certain that you are close to a good estimate.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<blockquote> <p> Context: </p> </blockquote> 

You are investigating a cave, which is a simple undirected graph with N vertices and no isolated vertices. At the start you are told that the cave has `N <= 10^5` rooms. The vertex number you are at and the number of incident edges.  

When in a room, you can identify what room you are in and see how many passages it connects to, but you cannot distinguish the passages. You want to estimate the number of passages that exist in the cave. You are allowed to do up to `K = 8000` operations. An operation is either: 

1. Teleport: You choose to teleport to a vertex number of your choice 
2. Walk: You choose to be moved to a uniformly chosen random neighbor of the current vertex. 

After each move, you are told the vertex number and the number of incident edges. With this information you have to estimate the number of edges in the graph in an approximation error of 33.3%, and you are to succeed in at least 90% of the test cases.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<blockquote> <p> Solution: </p> </blockquote> 

In this challenge I helped in two ways.

1. Helped on the implementation on Python, this by being in a call with 2 of my teammates and working together to get a solution also known as `Pair programming`. This was my first time doing it, as I was not coding but seeing all of the process and giving my thinking process to get the solution coded. As we don't need this to be explained twice, I will just hyperlink to the full solution on Python and explain fully the solution in Kotlin. [Full Code Solution in Python][full-codepy]

2. Fully implemented the traduction with all the changes needed to the code so it fully works and passes all the Code Jam restrictions in Kotlin.

In this certain challenge, the input from Code Jam was a little different, so I decided to change the reading process, inside the `Main` function, I directly read the number of cases but this time I don't worked on a diferent function on the code solution, as kotlin has a really cool feature that instead of using a for loop you can use `Repeat`, so I repeated the amount of cases on the first part of my code. 

_First two lines of Main function:_

{% highlight kotlin %}
fun main() {
    var cases = readLine()!!.toInt()
    repeat(cases) {..}
}
{% endhighlight %}

The fun does not ends here, as you can see on the context of this challenge because after each move, you are told the vertex number and the number of incident edges. Here I implemented a `Read` function so I can just call it each time I need it, which is going to be at the beginning to get the total of rooms and operations. Also, so I can use it after each move I do, depending on the situation.

_Read function:_

{% highlight kotlin %}
fun read(): Pair<Int, Int> { // Reading inputs
    val (r, p) = readLine()!!.split(" ").map { it.toInt() }
    return r to p
}
{% endhighlight %}

The first approach was to just teleport and visit 8000 random chosen vertices, using all of them to estimate the average degree of all the vertices. This kind of works, the difficult part here is that if the graph is in a star shape where all of the passages connect to a center, there is a high chance you don’t hit the center by teleporting, causing the sample to average every degree to 1. 

One way to fix this is to teleport once, then walk once, so in case of a star your chances of hitting the center is 100%, and not just a tiny fraction. Like this: 

`Repeat 4000 times:`

1. Randomly teleport to an unexplored vertex  
2. Walk 1 time to a random neighbor 

To be able to teleport to an unexplored vertex, and maximize chances of seeing something new we need to use a Set, which will let us store unseen places and to ignore the ones we already visited. This will also result in an optimized solution. Oh silly me... that's what I thought, because after implementing the Set part that was easily used on python, I was encountering the `TLE = Time Limit Exceeded` Code Jam limit, as you only have 120 seconds to get the solution. After reaching out to the team in the next day meeting and telling how I was stuck, they told me about the property of hashing. This uses a hash function to index into the correct bucket in the hash table, followed by comparing each element in the bucket to find a match instead of going through all of the Set to get the answer, making the time complexity go from O(n) to O(1). So I implemented the HashSet to continue with the challenge.

As you need to print all the moves you are doing in order to `Read` the next vertex number and incident edges, I decided to also create a `Move` function, where you basically print a String given and flush the output stream so you actually print every time and it's not buffered.

_Move function:_

{% highlight kotlin %}
fun move(Move: String) {     //Printing action to do (walk, teleport or estimate)
    println(Move)
    System.out.flush()       //Flushing output stream
}
{% endhighlight %}

To finish, I implemented the variables needed to gather the information and store it, so at the end I can calculate the average and use the Graph formula to get the final answer. After that, iterate with a repeat that is half of K, because K is the number of operations given by the challenge, which can be up to 8000 and erase from `roomsLeft` hashSet all the new rooms encountered.

{% highlight kotlin %}
fun main() {
    var cases = readLine()!!.toInt()
    repeat(cases) {          // Iterate tru all cases
        val (N, K) = read()  // N: number of rooms, K: operations to solve case
        val (R, P) = read()  // R: current room and P: passages in room
        
        // Empty set
        var roomsLeft = hashSetOf<Int>() 
        // sSt {1, 2, ..., N}
        for (i in 1 .. N) roomsLeft.add(i)
        // Removes room R from the set
        if (R in roomsLeft) roomsLeft.remove(R)
        
        // Rooms visited degree sum
        var degree = 0L
        
        // Degree and count of every teleported room
        var degreeRL = 0L
        var countT = 1
        
        degree = P.toLong()
        degreeRL = degree

        repeat(K / 2) { // Iterate tru all the operations given for the case
            // Odd cases
            move("T ${roomsLeft.iterator().next()}")
            val (RT, PT) = read()
            degreeRL += PT
            countT++
            if (RT in roomsLeft) {
                roomsLeft.remove(RT)
                degree += PT
            }
            // Even cases
            move("W")
            val (RW, PW) = read()
            if (RW in roomsLeft) {
                roomsLeft.remove(RW)
                degree += PW
            }
        }
        // Degree Avg of every visited room using tp
        val degreeAvg = degreeRL / countT
        
        // Graph formula. Sum of all degrees / 2
        // Sum of degree of rooms visited + Avg degree times number of rooms left
        val result = (((degree + (degreeAvg * roomsLeft.size)) / 2)).toLong()
        move("E $result")
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

Full code of Kotlin solution: [Full Code][full-codekt]

# Double or One Thing

This was casually a problem that I decided to make before knowing that we were going to do these 3 extra challenges, so I was able to help the team as I already had the solution for it. As I don't want to make this log any longer than it already is, I'm sharing a hyperlink to my [First Technical Log][first-log].

# Weightlifting

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<blockquote> <p> Overview: </p> </blockquote> 

On the weightlifting problem, you are given a series of exercises (e) that must be done on order, each one requires a specific weight. There are (w) types of weights and the main goal is to calculate the minimum number of operations to put on and off the different weights to do all exercises.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<blockquote> <p> Context: </p> </blockquote> 

On this challenge you must count as an operation each time you whether put on or off weight to complete each exercise. As inputs you are given T number of cases on the first line, on the next line will be 2 integers with E number of exercises and W types of weights. Then, will follow E numbers of lines, with each one containing the weights required for each exercise. At the end of each line E of exercises you must empty the stack of weights.  

For example, if you have 3 exercises (e) with 1 weight type (w), and each of the exercises needs 1, 2 and 1 as weights, the result will be 4 operations. 

1. One operation to put on a 1w 
2. One operation to put another 1w to complete an exercise of 2w 
3. One operation to put off 1w and complete an exercise of 1w 
4. One operation to put off 1w and empty the stack

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<blockquote> <p> Solution: </p> </blockquote> 

For this challenge, I helped in the implementation in Dart by `Pair programming`. I liked it the first time that I worked like that and it was no different, mainly because I worked with Kotlen in the mayority of the challenges I decided to give this approach and keep helping my teammates that were stuck in something on their program. Two minds are always better than one and it shows. And it was nice to work with someone different and see the way they think and solve the challenge.

The number of exercises and weights are always different, nevertheless in order to achieve an optimal way of loading and unloading weights it’s imperative to find a set of common weights that never left the stock. Then, we should define a differential (dp) as optimal way to do the movements through all exercises. Keep in mind that the starting and finishing point must be the same; out of the common set of weights.

Even though the possible movements are less than before, there are several options, so what we should do it’s to calculate the shorter one.

Full code of Dart solution: [Full Code][full-code3]

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<blockquote> <p> Extras: </p> </blockquote> 

[first-log]: https://theclerici.github.io/my-blog/blog-logs/log/2022/10/23/1stTechLog.html
[punched-cards]: https://codingcompetitions.withgoogle.com/codejam/round/0000000000876ff1/0000000000a4621b
[3d-printing]: https://codingcompetitions.withgoogle.com/codejam/round/0000000000876ff1/0000000000a4672b
[d-1000000]: https://codingcompetitions.withgoogle.com/codejam/round/0000000000876ff1/0000000000a46471
[chain-reactions]: https://codingcompetitions.withgoogle.com/codejam/round/0000000000876ff1/0000000000a45ef7
[twisty-little]: https://codingcompetitions.withgoogle.com/codejam/round/0000000000876ff1/0000000000a45fc0
[d-or1]: https://codingcompetitions.withgoogle.com/codejam/round/0000000000877ba5/0000000000aa8e9c
[equal-sum]: https://codingcompetitions.withgoogle.com/codejam/round/0000000000877ba5/0000000000aa8fc1
[weight-lifting]: https://codingcompetitions.withgoogle.com/codejam/round/0000000000877ba5/0000000000aa9280
[full-code1]: https://theclerici.github.io/my-blog/blog-code/code/2022/10/14/punchedcards.html
[full-codepy]: https://theclerici.github.io/my-blog/blog-code/code/2022/10/22/twistypython.html
[full-codekt]: https://theclerici.github.io/my-blog/blog-code/code/2022/10/22/twistykotlin.html
[full-code3]: https://theclerici.github.io/my-blog/blog-code/code/2022/10/23/weightliftingdart.html
[learn-kotlin]: https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/kotlin/