---
layout: post
title:  "7th weekly post"
date:   2022-11-13 12:00:25 -0000
category: Weekly
---
## Welcome to my 7th weekly post!

Hello! This week I was able to almost finish the backend, there's still some finishing touches beforehand, but it is good and ready to start the frontend with react and work on it along the way.

Some updates:

1. Understand what is an API
2. Learned about the CRUD functions. 
3. Learned about the software architectural pattern MVC (Model-view-controller)
4. Learned how to fully work with postman to test the backend.
5. Learned how to work with react connecting to the backend with axios.

This week was full of new features needed to work properly on my project, there are certain things to consider while working on it.

Connectivity is amazing, by now we are all used to it because it puts the world at our fingertips. From our devices we can purchace, post, pin, pick enything everywhere! We are connected to the world an each other. But, how does it happen? How data gets from here to there? Well, let's talk about application programming interface (API). The engine under the hood and what makes possible all the interactivity we expect and rely on. An API is the messenger that takes request and tells the system what you want to do, then it returns the response back to you. Think about the critical link to communicate in a restaurant, exactly a waiter, how will you get the food you want from the menu? The waiter takes your request or order and tells the system (the kitchen) what to do, then, delivers the response back to you (food). APIs make it possible for us to use any kind of interaction in our apps, creating connectivity.

After understanding this, we go now with the CRUD functions. This refers to the main four operations we perform on data while working on API projects. First, you want to be able to create or add data `Create = POST`. Second, you want to read the data, it can include searching or filtering the results `Read = GET`. Third, you want to update or edits rows of data in any of the tables `Update = PUT`. Finally, you need a way to delete or remove the data `Delete = DELETE`, these four operations are shortened to the acronym `CRUD` and serve the purpose of changing the data over time, making your web or app dynamic.

To work with a REST application you need to have order, for this you need to learn what is the MVC. Websites and coding has gone complex, with thousands of developers working on them, to make this easier, developer use patterns to layout their projects to make the code less complex and easier to work with. The goal of this pattern is to split a large app into specific sections that all have their own purpose.

# MVC = Model - View - Controller

Your request information is sent to a specific controller, it handles the request and tell the rest of the server what to do with the request, it ask the model to get information based on the request, and the Model handles all the data logic of the request. Meaning that the controller never worries about how to handle the data that it sends and receives, it only tells the model what to do and respond based on what the model returns. After the model sends it response back, the controller needs to interact with the view to render the data to the user, the view is only concerned on how to present the information that the controller sends. Controller gets the presentation and returns the response.

All of the work done in the REST API needs Java Annotations, they are tags in the code and you can recognize them with their prefix @, they are used for code analysis, compilation or program execution, with them you apply the CRUD functions @Get, @Post, @Put, @Delete and make the model readable. Another common uses are @Controller which indicates you Spring controller class, @Service where you execute the logic and perform calculations, basically a class that performs some service, and conects with @Repository, where you have access to the database and get the info needed.

The model returns the data, yes, but how you test your REST app without connecting to the view? Well, here is where postman enters the room. It is an application used for API testing, it tests the HTTP request, here we obtain the different responses that need to be validated and like that you can test the you are getting the correct information before working on the view. 

Finally, I started the view part of my app, the Frontend with react, I already shared a little app on the 6th weekly essay where I started working on it, but now I implemented those learnings on my application, the important part of this is that with @crossorigin you connect with the API to get the info that you will show, and with axios (JavaScript library used to make HTTP requests) I was able to get and handle the request from the browser to tranform it into readable data to the user. This is achieved by telling the URL where the info is stored and receives it in order to work with it. 

It was an stacked week, hopefully I can finish next week to work on my technical log and finishing touches for the last week, stay tuned!