---
layout: post
title:  "11th weekly post"
date:   2022-12-12 12:00:25 -0000
category: Weekly
---
## Welcome to my 11th weekly post!

This week was kind of the same as last week, but a little bit more fun if you can say so, mainly because it was the second week of lighting talks and we got to see how much we improved and how to adress the same kind of talk but with less time on the clock. Also, a new project where I'm gonna start with databases, which is a new topic for me.

1. Lighting talk (7 minutes - Clean Code)
2. Code Sharing Platform

if you are a programmer, you have probably seen a badly done code or with a title that did not really corresponds to it's function. This scenario is way more common that you can imagine, this is exactly why I decided to talk about clean code, which is really important for every programmer to have in consideration as it makes every code easy to read, understand and have less errors in it while working on it.

I learned that we spend way much more time reading code instead of writing it, and how even me as an Apprentice have noticed that in the past topics, where for every new one I need to look and read problably ten times more that what I'm actually going to write.

With the feedback received, I was able to understand what are the keypoints to improve on my next talk, which is to give a little bit more of context and a tiny bit of stuttering, I'M NERVOUS hahahaha, I have to focus on that and try to make my slides more information given. It was really cool to see how in the feedback people that pointed certain things congratulated me because I took them in mind while speaking. Already working on the next sessio which will be 5 minutes long.

In the learning process, I continued with the second Hyperskill program, which is a Code Sharing Platform for users to share and look for pieces of codes whenever they need. I will dive a little bit further on the topics, as I did not on the last one. At the moment they both have included the same, but I'm at the point where DataBase is going to be introduced and I'm really excited to work with it.

Some of the topics (JAVA) are:

1. Variables, operations, conditional statements and loops.
2. Methods, arrays and exceptions.
3. OOP, classes, constructor, getters and setters.
4. Objects, data structure, dynamic arrays and Big O.
6. Dependencies, libraries and frameworks
7. HTML basics, CSS basics, JS basics and JSON.
8. Spring boot, maven and gradle.
9. MVC, REST CRUD and POSTMAN.
10. Working with dates. 
11. Testing and using dependencies on Spring.

Mainly the important features that I consider was included, I will make sure to dive deeper in all the knowlegde as there is a lot! A lot of topics where already touched on the blog so I will not dive further, probably on the next one I will dive on databases so be ready, bye bye!