---
layout: post
title:  "5th weekly post"
date:   2022-10-30 12:00:25 -0000
category: Weekly
---
## Welcome to my 5th weekly post!

This week was more of an individual challenge, as the majority of the topics were not familiar to me. To start with,
I decided to focus on Backend, mainly full understanding how Java works, and first entering the Object-Oriented Programming
world. I learned this new model that organizes software design around data, or objects, rather than functions and logic, and this
is usefull because if used properly, it can help to write testable and maintainable code.

With this, I also learned that there is four basics:

1. Abstraction
2. Encapsulation
3. Inheritance
4. Polymorphism. 

`Abtraction`: Design principle, being able to abstract objects in a way that makes them intetion revealing, simple to use and simple to understand, being able to show only the essential details to the user, indentifying only the required characteristics of an object instead of giving all the irrelevant details. Like turning the TV on, you know there is a button that does it, but not all of the work that actually make the TV turn on.

`Encapsulation`: You can think of it of a shield that prevents the data from being accessed by the code outside this shield, it would be weird for a machine to go from off to paused.
This can be achieved by declaring all the variables private and writing public methods in the class (Getters and Setters) to set and get the values of variables.

`Inheritance`: Gives you the ability to reuse behavior instead of duplicating it, this work as parent and child, where a child class can extend its parent and add specifics to it,
this is usually used when you have two or more classes with common methods or fields, you create a superclass and inherit the shared behavior.

`Polymorphism`: I will explain polymorphism on the next week as I haven't finished my learning on Java.

As I said, this week was mainly on the fully undesrtanding of Java as a programming language and how you can implement all of it's functionalities in real world problems. For this, I am working on a project that I will share when finished, but is mainly to learn how to apply all of my learning.

Next week will be more oriented on the Frontend part, as I will start with react and JavaScypt, hopefully with all of this I can start the implementation of the project, catch you in a few days!