---
layout: post
title:  "10th weekly post"
date:   2022-12-04 12:00:25 -0000
category: Weekly
---
## Welcome to my 10th weekly post!

This week I focused on working in 2 new projects.

1. Lighting talks
2. [Cinema Room REST Service][rest-service]

I have mentioned LTs (Lighting talks) before but never really explained them. In order to improve our communication skills and public speaking.

This will be achieved in three sessions. I will talk about the first one as it was the one I worked on during the week.

10 minute talk about simething I learned while working on my To Do app, I decided to talk about Unit testing, as me and some of my teammates were having trouble to understand it at the beginning, and it was part of our program.

In the talk, I noticed that I need improvement on my slides, as well as my opening and ending, I need to catch the attention since the beginning, I have no problem while speaking, is just that I need that to be strong so everone directly starts listening to me and stop everthing else, with the closing, so they don't forget certain keypoints I consider fundamental.

I noticed that I'm able to speak well and clearly, with good energy on my voice, but I still need to fully assess the needs of the audience, for sure a better integration of my slides is needed.

In the notice of the Cinema Room REST Service, I was able to reinforce my learnings about Spring and the backend related topics, as I needed to use CRUD, and work on my modules so they are ordered accordingly. (You can check it out on the hyperlink in point number 2 at the top.)

`Summary`

"Always wanted to have your private movie theater and screen only the movies you like? You can buy a fancy projector and set it up in a garage, but how can you sell tickets? Having a booth is old-fashioned, so let's create a special service for that! Make good use of Spring and write a REST service that can show the available seats, sell and refund tickets, and display the statistics of your venue."

I was able to finish it this week, I also learned how to work with gradle, which is an open-source build automation tool flexible enough to build almost any type of software. With it, I was able to build in an easy way a simple REST Service, including the GET and POST methods.

That's all for the week, I will start with a new project and continue with the second LT, Clerici out!

[rest-service]: https://github.com/TheClerici/Cinema-Room-REST-Service