---
layout: post
title:  "8th weekly post"
date:   2022-11-20 12:00:25 -0000
category: Weekly
---
## Welcome to my 8th weekly post!

This week was mainly focused on React, adding almost all of the features needed for the To Do App. 

Added an app header, only visual change so you know what it is.

Added a search function, where you can search the different to-dos, here I work with the GET, and filter depending on what the user wants. Here are 3 different options, by name, by priority or by flag (Is the to do done?).

Added 2 buttons, one opens a modal to add a todo with certain options, and the other one clears all the to dos at the current moment. Here I used POST and DELETE, in order to add one or delete everything. 

then, a table with the information, definitely what gave the most troubles, as I needed to work with a lot of parameters to make it look good, in there you have several functions, starting with the checkmark, if you set it to checked the to do is Done, and if you uncheck it's set to undone. Then, it displays the name, priority and due date, with possible orders for the last two. and 2 different actions to work with, edit button and delete button, here I used almost everything, as I worked with the GET, PUT and DELETE. 

Added a pagination too, I receive the total of to dos and depending on that I set a total of number pages and move through them with 2 buttons.

I need to implement the stats, I haven't started that yet, but I already have a Duration that sets the time spent on my backend, just need to make it on the front and set it to only minutes, with separation on low, medium and high priority. 

Certain blockers, need to work on them, if due date is null I lose some info and it sets all my priorities to high, this is a backend error, will look into that, I already have something planned for it.

I also need to add an error modal that appears in case something occurs. 

Will focus on finishing the app so I can work on the technical log and lighting talks for the future. 