---
layout: post
title:  "9th weekly post"
date:   2022-11-27 12:00:25 -0000
category: Weekly
---
## Welcome to my 9th weekly post!

Hello Hello, this week was intense, as I finished the App on the Front end and backend, a lot of debugging and testing, to make sure everything was working as intended... A lot of writing too! As I worked on the technical log and on today's weekly post. 

Learned how to test on Java with JUnit and how to test in react by adding a new file on the component with the extention _.test.js_. Developers write unit tests for their code to make sure that the code works correctly, this helps to detect and protect against bugs in the future. You can run the tests with commands depending on the environment you are using.

Managed to implement the stats and final touches on backend an frontend, this month was full of surprises, where I learned a lot on how to research.

There was a lot of information that got me scared at first, because everything was new to me, it is for sure a challenge to test yourself and test your limits, start searching and looking for the right tools, start programming and learn for all the mistakes you do in the journey. Because as everything, it's better to do it and get the mistakes by yourself instead of just reading them.

Java fundamentals and Spring Boot was what I liked the most, felt like I can have more control on all the things that are happening or that I wanna test and return. For the react part, it was hard to get a full understanding on the use of state, request and effect, but I managed to make the necessary click on my mind to understand it.

I’m really looking forward on next challenges and how, with more dependencias and libraries coding can get easier and see how almost all of it changes. This is said because a lot of the problems I was facing had an explanation but with certain dependencies that I did not have at my disposal, and searching/thinking how to solve it was indeed the “fun” part of it.

I'm also excited because this week will be our Lighting talks where we will get to test our abilities yo show others what we learned furing this period, as well as more hyperskill to reinforce what we learned.