---
layout: post
title:  "12th weekly post"
date:   2022-12-19 12:00:25 -0000
category: Weekly
---
## Welcome to my 12th weekly post!

Finally!!! I was a little worried about hyperskill, as there is a lot of information to process and a lot of things to do in every stage, really glad I was able to finish today, just before heading to San Luis Potosí for Christmas.

1. [Code Sharing Platform][code-plat]

This week was all about implementing a database to the current project that I was working on named Code Sharing Platform, you can have a look at it on the hyperlink above.

It started with a little introduction to Databases (DB - DBs for future references), where I got to see that A db is a collection of data that is specifically organized for rapid search and retrieval by the computer, but what controls the data? It is called Database Management System, this is the mediator between the User and the DB where you can:

* Store, retrieve, update and make concurrent updates to data.
* Get metadata and access a db remotely.
* Restrict access to data and much more.

Here, we had an in depth view to all the different Relational Data Models, such as Postgress, MySQL, etc. 

We have Entities, attributes and tuples. An Entity is an abstraction of some object (studet, car), then we have a relation, which consists of attrivutes and tuples, here you define how entities are interconnected, each attribute is a column in a table (student -> last name, first name, student number) and tuples are rows in the table (collection of specific attribute values).

When doing these tables, data mapping and boject mapping is needed, mainly because all of the information is in the form of tables and relations between them. You use data mapping to match data in two different systems (depending on what you need, JSON, XML, etc.), and object mapping is used to represent more complex objects and to add control from one system to data in another.

With a little introduction to some DBs, the one used for the code sharing platform was H2, which is used in training projects, it has two ways of storing data, in-memory database, when you stop the app all the info is lost, and store data in your drive in the file system to reuse it when needed.

Here you need to write a set of properties to change thins like the name, in which dialect it's going to be, enable the console, and so on. Here I worked with the CRUD Repository, it contains operations for each CRUD action, this interface provides the opportunity to pass both an entity object and an entity id to its method, multiple or single. 

To implement it, you extend CrudRepository on your repo interface, with your entity type (model) and the entity's id type:

```java
public interface ToDoRepository extends CrudRepository<ToDoModel, String> {

}
```

The CRUD operations implemented are the following, Generic type "T" represents an entity type, and generic type "ID" their unique id type.

```java
public interface CrudRepository<T, ID> extends Repository<T, ID> {
    // CREATE/UPDATE methods
    <S extends T> S save(S entity);
    <S extends T> Iterable<S> saveAll(Iterable<S> entities);

    // READ methods
    Optional<T> findById(ID id);
    boolean existsById(ID id);
    Iterable<T> findAll();
    Iterable<T> findAllById(Iterable<ID> ids);
    long count();

    // DELETE methods
    void deleteById(ID id);
    void delete(T entity);
    void deleteAllById(Iterable<? extends ID> ids);
    void deleteAll(Iterable<? extends T> entities);
    void deleteAll();
}
```

With these methods I was able to finish succesfully the implementation of the H2 database to my Code Sharing Platform Project.

That's it for today! See you next week :D

[code-plat]: https://github.com/TheClerici/Code-Sharing-Platform