---
layout: post
title:  "6th weekly post"
date:   2022-11-06 12:00:25 -0000
category: Weekly
---
## Welcome to my 6th weekly post!

This week I finally started on the implementation of my knowledge to the new project: `To-do app`.

But first, here are some of my updates for the week:

1. Finished my Java learning journey with two applied projects: [Travel Booking][travel-book] and [Expenses Management][exp-man]
2. Finished a little [app][react-app] with react to learn it
3. Discovered developer tools for the To-do app: Spring Boot and Maven

After dedicating almost two weeks of learning to get the App started, it was satisfying to see all the hard work reflected, as I finally was able to start the backend part of the project and test it with PostMan, in here I was able to introduce myself to Sring Boot and Maven.

Remember that I was going to talk a little about `polymorphism`? well, this is achieved by overriding, this happens when a derived class has a definition for one member of the finctions of the base class. You can see this in an example about a man that is at the same time a father, a husband and an employee. Meaning that the same person can have different behavior in different situations.

`Spring Boot` is a framework (A tool that provides ready-made components that are customized to speed up development) for developing Rest APIs, you can configure all the dependencies (Here is where Maven enters the room!) needed for the project beforehand, and it configures automatically third party libraries when possible, easy to use and implement and fun, as I learned about the @RestController annotation, which is used for making restful web services, this handles the requests made by the client.

`Maven`, in the other hand, simplifies the build processes, with it you can actually manage a software project. The dependencies added on spring boot are part of maven, here, in a POM file, you can all all the ones you need, along with all the libraries that are used by the software. The cool part about the libraries part is that it only downloads the ones you need when necessary, making it less robust.

In the react part, I have never worked with any HTML or CSS, neither with JavaScrypt, thankfully in a project beforehand I was able to see how my team worked on TypeScrypt, as it is kind of similar, in the hyperlink in app on the second point you can see how I was able to understant how to work with props to have order on my program, as well as all of the part of sending info from parent to child and the other way around. Don't forget on how to make it pretty with css files!

That's all for the week, I want to finish the backend and start working on the connection to the frontend, I want to be able to see the changes occur but pretty! See yall next week.

`:D`

[react-app]: https://github.com/TheClerici/expense-list
[travel-book]: https://github.com/TheClerici/TravelBooking
[exp-man]: https://github.com/TheClerici/EmployeeExpensesManagement