---
layout: post
title:  "13th and 14th weekly post"
date:   2023-01-02 12:00:25 -0000
category: Weekly
---
## Welcome to my weekly post!

Hello everyone! I decided to take 1 week off the weekly posting as it was Holiday season, and I was waiting for my next project.

In the waiting, I continued finishing the Hyperskill course to get the certificate of Java Backend Dev, which I'm really close to finish, I plan to finish that for next week.

I learned about SQL in the meantime, mainly because I'm curious about becoming a data engineer. It was mainly the basics such as:

* SELECT statements
* CREATE statements
* UPDATE statements
* DELETE statements

SELECT -> statements that extract data from a table and evaluate expressions in it: keyword SELECT, list of expressions with optional aliases, keyword FROM, table name, and a semicolon to mark the end of the statement.

```SQL
SELECT
    'London' AS place,
    day,
    temperature
FROM
    table_name
;
```

CREATE -> To create a new db, you can use this query template:

```SQL
CREATE DATABASE name;
```

The following template is used to drop the database:

```SQL
DROP DATABASE name; 
```

To create a new table, follow this general template:

```SQL
CREATE TABLE table_name ( 
    column_1 column_1_type,
    column_2 column_2_type,
    ...., 
    column_n column_n_type
);
```

To delete a table, use this statement:

```SQL
DROP TABLE table_name; 
```

UPDATE -> Typically, we don’t just store data: we need it to reflect the current state of things in real life as closely as possible. One can get a promotion at work, so their title needs to be changed. You can buy a gift for your friend and the amount of money in your bank account has to be adjusted accordingly.

```SQL
UPDATE employees 
SET department_id = 14; 
```

DELETE -> In real life we don't just collect records, sometimes we want to get rid of them.

The following query can be used to delete all the rows without deleting the table:

```SQL
DELETE FROM table_name 
```

If you want to delete only selected rows, you can use this template:

```SQL
DELETE FROM table_name 
WHERE logical_expression
```

To continue with the good news. The new project.

I was asked to fill a table with my desired stacks to continue working with, which I decided to fill with data engineering related stuff. Next week I got the news that I got selected to work on a SaaS KPI Dashboard, being this a data science related project. Will dive into it on the next essay!