---
layout: post
title:  "15th and 16th weekly post"
date:   2023-01-15 12:00:25 -0000
category: Weekly
---
## Welcome to my weekly post!

The new project.

The main goal is to make a web-based dashboard app to display financial and growth related KPIs (Key point indicators), This app should update daily and any user should be able to filter and view the results based on their preferences.

For this, we will be working with *Python* related technologies, and it was a project that already started and worked good on a localhost, so our first feature was to make it server-hosted.

Here is where *Heroku* was used for after searching for different servers to host it, as our team already has a subscription for it and works as intended for the current version of the app. Heroku is a cloud platform as a service (PaaS) that lets companies build, deliver, monitor, and scale apps.

With the deployment issue resolved, we faced a new challenge right before implementing it, as all of the information was being saved internally and not somewhere when you can store it and access it whenever you need it, we used *bmemcache* to periodically store information in cache memory instead of in disk. It has really cool features such as setting a time for your cache to expire if you only need it for a certain ammount of time and helps to save storage space in the Heroku remote repository.

How do we fill the cache with the info everyday? With Heroku *add-ons*, these are designed components that facilitate the data storage, monitoring, analytics, data processing, and more for our Heroku applications. One of them is a scheduler, where you run a script every x amount of time you want, in this case, everyday, this way, all of the information on the cache is updated every morning before work hours. Also, I learned about stages and *pipelines* in Heroku.

A pipeline is a set of automated processes that allow developers to reliably and efficiently compile, build, and deploy their code to their production compute platforms. Read more about [Heroku pipelines][https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pipelines]

I learned that in order to have all of your values secure in a server, you need to have return values or configuration variables, which are stored on the environment and you access their values via keys.

I also implemented an SSO login wich was a Basic auth process that asked for a user and a password to use the app until the browser closes, just in case someone external of the company gets the link we will not have access unless he knows the needed keys. This keys can also be saved as conf vars to safely store all you users and passwords.

The final stretch of the second week of development was implementing a *forecast* for the values, as it already worked on a localhost and displayed all of the information, this was the last -but hardest- part of it, We researched some theory related to *Time Series Analysis* and the models you can implement, such as *ARIMA, SARIMA and SARIMAX.*